- [Instructor] The majority of the work required
to create a spring batch job,
is defining how jobs move from one step to another step.
This concept is known as flow,
and it is important to understand
in order to address batch processing requirements.
In simple jobs, execution flows sequentially
from one step to another,
as we have seen so far in our delivery job.
We simply execute one step then the next step,
repeating this pattern until the job completes.
Sequential execution is achieved
using the next transition within our job configuration.
This transition allows us to specify
the next step to execute upon the successful completion
of a step.
More complex jobs may require a conditional flow
where the flow of the job may execute a different step,
depending upon the result of a previous step.
Here we see a segment of a job
that is configured to execute Step3 ,if Step1 is successful.
If Step1 is not successful, we'll execute Step2.
To support this, Spring Batch provides
the transitions on, to, and from.
These transitions can be used
to conditionally define the flow
from one step to another.
The most important of these is the on transition,
it allows us to specify a pattern
that if matched by the exit status of a step,
will cause the job execution to proceed
to the next step specified within the step configuration.
So here we see that after Step1,
we sue the on method to check the pattern of the exit status
and see if it matches failed.
If it does, we move to Step2,
otherwise, we'll go from Step1,
take the exit status, and compare it to
the special pattern, asterisks.
This pattern basically is a catch-all,
so anything aside from failed
will cause our job to move to Step3.
So as we watch this job execute,
we see Step1 is successful, and because Step1 is successful,
that will cause us to match the asterisks pattern
specified in the on transition.
And that means that Step3 will be executed next.
Now if we look at the inverse,
let's say Step1 were to fail,
that's going to cause our job flow
to transition to Step2, because we're going to return failed
as an exit status, and then that will cause
JobExecution to proceed to Step2.
So it's all about that pattern
specified in the on transition
and then the next step specified in the to following on.
You can tell from this discussion
that the statuses are very important,
so let's talk a little bit more about them in depth.
When a batch job executes, Spring Batch captures
two statuses for the JobExecution
and the StepExecution.
The statuses are slightly similar
and the differences between them is a little confusing.
The first status we're going to discuss
is the Batch Status.
This status represents the overall status
for the job or step execution.
It is limited to an enumerated set of values.
The second status is the Exit Status
and when we're talking about conditional job flow,
this is the important one.
It represents a literal status
that is returned from a JobExecution or a StepExecution.
The Exit Status is the one that is used
by our on transition for the pattern match.
So when performing a conditional flow,
the Exit Status will be consulted for that pattern match,
which will ultimately determine the flow the job will take.
Here you can see some of the most common
BatchStatuses and ExitStatuses.
BatchStatuses are fixed, they're specified in an enum,
so the ones you see on the left
are a fixed set of values and we cannot specify
a custom BatchStatus.
The Exit Status, on the other hand,
uses literal values and we can define
our own custom ExitStatuses.
This will be important when we look at
conditional flows moving forward.
Over the next few lessons, we're going to see
how to configure these conditional flows,
and leverage that ExitStatus of a step execution
to control the flow of a job.